# Using Reviewers' Editions

Reviewers Editions are a system for numbering editions of a prose
publication, like a form legal document or a blog post. The purpose of
Reviewers Editions is twofold:

1. Reviewers Editions replace vague conventions for numbering revisions
   of a work with a clear vocabulary for describing changes to a
   document over time.

2. Reviewers Editions communicate to users of a document how much of
   each new edition they ought to review.

## A Hypothetical Publication

Consider a hypothetical working group formed to publish a model form
industry conference code of conduct.

## Initial Drafts

Work begins and you produce an initial draft. You'd like to distribute
it to your working group colleagues for review.

The first edition for widespread use will be called "first edition". Its
Reviewers Edition will be `1e`.

But your draft isn't quite ready for publication as the first edition.
Rather, it's just the first draft of what will eventually be the first
edition, with additional changes. As a result, its Reviewers Edition
will be `1e1d`, pronounced "first edition, first draft".

You distribute your draft to the working group as `1e1d` and lo and
behold, a colleague is able to make some corrections. Their draft isn't
quite ready for publication for widespread use, either, so it becomes
the second draft of the first edition, or `1e2d`.

## The First Edition

Finally, after a third round, the working group settles on a first
edition worthy of publication. The Reviewers Edition is `1e`.

## Corrections

Users begin using the form in practice. The first bit of feedback is a
spelling error that somehow slipped past the working group.

The working group can correct the spelling error immediately and publish
a new edition. Since that edition is just the first edition with a
correction, its Reviewers Edition will be `1e1c`, or "first edition,
first correction".

If the working group subsequently spots a grammatical error, it can
correct that error and publish `1e2c`, or "first edition, second
correction", and so on.

Increasing the correction number of a Reviewers Edition tells users of
the publication that everyone using `1e` should use the new, corrected
edition. It also tells them they needn't review the corrections, which
are only technical.

## Updates

The working group receives further feedback. Users are concerned that
the model form does not make clear to whom conference attendees should
report code of conduct.

A member of the working group drafts a proposed update to the form that
adds language about a conference manager who receives and responds to
complaints of code of conduct violations. The change is more than merely
technical, comprising a new section of the form.

An edition with the new material would be `1e1u`, or "first edition,
first update". However, the drafting member decides to circulate a draft
to the working group for review. That draft is `1e1u1d`, or "first
edition, first update, first draft".

When `1e1u` is finally published, perhaps after several drafts, the
new update part of the Reviewers Edition tells users of `1e` and its
corrections should review the parts of the form that have changed
between their current edition and the new `1e1u`. If a conference
organizer is familiar with `1e3c` and sees that a new `1e1u` is
published, they should compare `1e3c` to `1e1u` and check that the new
changes meet their needs.

## More Corrections

The working group addresses a number of user needs, publishing a series
of updates to the first edition, culminating in `1e7u`, "first edition,
seventh update".

## A New Edition

At this point, the succession of updates and corrections has made the
form a bit difficult to read. The working group decides to focus on a
rewrite designed for ease of reading and cleaner language.

Since changes in that new edition will be widespread and substantial,
the working group will advise users of the first edition to review the
whole new edition from top to bottom. The Reviewers Edition will be
`2e`, or "second edition".

There may be several drafts of the second edition, beginning with
`2e1d`, then `2e2d` ,and so on.
